0x05a Broadcast Receiver fix 1340 (#1355)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05a-Platform-Overview.md

Broadcast Receivers are components that allow apps to receive notifications from other apps and from the system itself. With it, apps can react to events (internal, initiated by other apps, or initiated by the operating system). They are generally used to update user interfaces, start services, update content, and create user notifications.

> There are two ways to make a Broadcast Receiver known to the system. One way is to declare it in the Android Manifest file. The manifest should specify an association between the Broadcast Receiver and an intent filter to indicate the actions the receiver is meant to listen for.

Reviewer: Can you explain the difference between explicit and implicit broadcast receivers here please?

Reviewer 2: also consider referencing https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts.html#security-and-best-practices

Author: The only reference I could find (and added) about "implicit broadcast" in Android Dev is under [Manifest-declared receivers](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts.html#manifest-declared-receivers):

> implicit broadcasts (broadcasts that do not target your app specifically)

My understanding for "implicit broadcast receiver" is that it doesn't only listen for broadcasts that target the app itself, but also for those "implicit broadcasts". However, there's no reference I could find in the documentation.

Author: @cpholguera Is there a particular point you think should be imported from the "Security considerations and best practices" paragraph, or are you suggesting adding the whole page as a reference?

Reviewer: @zehuanli these are implicit broadcasts: https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcast-exceptions, basically most of them are system events where an app can listen to and act upon.

Reviewer 2: At least referencing to that page as a link should be sufficient, thank you :)

Reviewer: Thanks!

Author: Link to  [Security considerations and best practices](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts.html#security-and-best-practices) has been added.

@commjoen description of "implicit broadcast" has been added in [commit](https://github.com/zehuanli/owasp-mstg/commit/72694f066d156e02cce65f1fef837a9fad605564). Changes of implicit broadcasts in [Broadcast Exceptions](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcast-exceptions) has been added in [commit](https://github.com/zehuanli/owasp-mstg/commit/441e0a699dbd61d0696fb9d618af99f23f0e25ca). Please let me know if there are any changes needed.

</receiver>
```

The other way is to create the receiver dynamically in code and register it with the `Context.registerReceiver()` method.

> 

Reviewer: I know it is a little bit out of the way of your PR, but can I ask you a favor? Can you link to https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md#broadcast-permission-enforcement to show how security matters and update that section with the security considerations of https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts#security-and-best-practices ?

> An example of registering Broadcast Receiver dynamically:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An example of registering a Broadcast Receiver dynamically:
```

```Java
// Define a broadcast receiver
myReceiver = new BroadcastReceiver() {
    @Override
    public void onReceive(Context context, Intent intent) {
        Log.d(TAG, "Intent received by myReceiver");
    }
};
// Define an intent filter with actions that the broadcast receiver listens for
IntentFilter intentFilter = new IntentFilter();
intentFilter.addAction("com.owasp.myapplication.MY_ACTION");
// To register the broadcast receiver
registerReceiver(myReceiver, intentFilter);
// To un-register the broadcast receiver
unregisterReceiver(myReceiver);
```

> Note that Android apps don’t need to be running to receive intents; the system starts apps automatically when a relevant intent is raised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the system starts an app with the registered receiver automatically when a relevant intent is raised.
```

> 

Reviewer: Another thing: what does the programmatically declared receiver mean in terms of android:exported and android:enabled? How can we make sure that not everything can start this?

Reviewer 2: I'd update both 
- https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md#inspect-the-androidmanifest-2: see above comment on the default values when setting a manifest-based receiver.
- https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Document/0x05h-Testing-Platform-Interaction.md#inspect-the-source-code-2: add what is the default and that this has to be considered when reviewing the code.

@commjoen Do we need an extra ticket for this or better include it in this PR?

Reviewer: What would you prefer @zehuanli ? would you be able to update these parts? or would you rather have it in a separate isue?

Author: @commjoen Yes I think I can update above parts here as they're kinda related to this issue.

Reviewer: Thank you for taking care of it @zehuanli 👍

After receiving an implicit intent, Android will list all apps that have registered a given action in their filters. If more than one app has registered for the same action, Android will prompt the user to select from the list of available apps.

An interesting feature of Broadcast Receivers is that they are assigned a priority; this way, an intent will be delivered to all authorized receivers according to their priority.

A Local Broadcast Manager can be used to make sure intents are received from the internal app only, and any intent from any other app will be discarded. This is very useful for improving security.

###### Implicit Broadcast Receiver Limitiation

> According to [Background Execution Limits](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/background.html#broadcasts), apps that target Android 8.0 (API level 26) or higher can no longer register Broadcast Receivers for implicit broadcasts in their manifest, except for those listed in [Implicit Broadcast Exceptions](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcast-exceptions). The Broadcast Receivers created at runtime by calling `Context.registerReceiver()` are not affected by this limitation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
According to [Background Execution Limits](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/oreo/background.html#broadcasts "Background Execution Limits"), apps that target Android 8.0 (API level 26) or higher can no longer register Broadcast Receivers for implicit broadcasts in their manifest, except for those listed in [Implicit Broadcast Exceptions](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcast-exceptions "Implicit Broadcast Exceptions"). The Broadcast Receivers created at runtime by calling `Context.registerReceiver()` are not affected by this limitation.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add the earlier limitation on android 7 as well? https://developer.android.com/about/versions/nougat/android-7.0-changes.html?source=post_page---------------------------#bg-opt

Reviewer: And limitations for android 9 as well: https://developer.android.com/guide/components/broadcasts

Author: Description for both added.
